So in my network I'll have my sister looks over connected to Rod one which in turn is connected to rodded
to my sister looks over has an IP address of 1 2 1 6 8 1 2 5 4
and it can ping the loop packs of both routers Kibby says luck is running on the Windows PC over here.
So now let's configure logging messages on the Rodda to say logging
and I need to specify an IP address if I want to log to that server.
So 1 2 1 6 8 1 1 0 8.
That is once again the IP address of the PC
and then I'm going to say logging crap seven now before enable logging on Rodda to let's have a look
at logging.
So show log
we can see that trap logging is set to debugging and I'm logging to this server according to the Rodda.
Two messages have already been logged to the server and I can actually see that here in my Kibby says
log server.
So something was configured by the console and logging has been enabled.
So what's nice now is I could actually do something simple like just pressing control the controls it.
And notice I can see the output on the SSAs looks over.
Now I'm not seeing anything on my console because my console at the moment is set to level arrows.
So let's change that.
So logging console 7 or debugging I see the output here and I also see it on my server.
Now one of the things that you'll notice is that the date and time stamps are not correct but top show
clock you can see that the clock is set to March 2002.
So let's set the clock to the current time at the moment here in the UK and it's the 16th of May 2016.
At the moment.
So show clock Notice please that on my server change from March to May.
So that update has been done.
You can also see in this case that there are some SPF messages because I am running a debug adjacencies
on the router so my time stamps have been enabled properly.
Foretop show run piping clewed log.
Notice service time stamps log date time milliseconds allows me to specify that time stamps will be
included in logging messages.
That's a very important command to add to your router so that you actually get the date and time stamps
on your log messages.
Otherwise you would know when things took place.
So before I explain some of the options let's do a test of shut the interface down on rodded to and
then shut it.
And what you should see now is I get logging messages on my console but I'm also getting those logging
messages on my server.
So I'm seeing all the logging messages not only on the console but I'm seeing it on my sis server.
So this is a better way of storing log messages.
There are other options available and you can have a look at the online help for more details.
I simply wanted to show you here how to get a log system running and integrate it between a Cisco router
running and Jena's 3 and the solar wind syslog server.